Summary

The main idea behind generic programming is to solve problems for a wide variety of types by wri􏰀ng a small amount of generic code. Shapless provide two tools.

1. a set of generic data types that can be inspected, traversed, and manipulated at the type level
2. automati􏰀c mapping between algebraic data types (ADTs) (encoded in Scala as case classes and sealed traits) and these generic representations.


2.1 Recap: algebraic data types
 
They are an idioma􏰀c way of represen􏰀ng data using “ands” and “ors”. For example:

- a shape is a rectangle or a circle
- a rectangle has a width and a height
- a circle has a radius

In ADT terminology, “and” types such as rectangle and circle are called products and “or” types such as shape are called coproducts. In Scala we typically represent products using case classes and coproducts using sealed traits:

```scala
sealed trait Shape

final case class Rectangle(width: Double, height: Double) extends Shape

final case class Circle(radius: Double) extends Shape
```

2.1.1 Alternative Encoding

Sealed traits and case classes are undoubtedly the most convenient encoding of ADTs in Scala. However, they aren’t the only encoding. For example, the Scala standard library provides generic products in the form of Tuples and a generic coproduct in the form of Either.

```scala
type Rectangle2 = (Double, Double)

type Circle2 = Double

type Shape2 = Either[Rectangle2, Circle2]

```

2.2 Generic product encodings

Unfortunately, Scala’s built-in tuples have a couple of disadvantages that make them unsuitable for shapeless’ purposes:

1. Each size of tuple has a different, unrelated type, making it difficult to write code that abstracts over sizes.
2. There is no type for zero-length tuples, which are important for rep- resen􏰀ng products with zero fields. We could arguably use Unit, but we ideally want all generic representa􏰀ons to have a sensible common supertype. The least upper bound of Unit and Tuple2 is Any so a com- bina􏰀on of the two is imprac􏰀cal.

For these reasons, shapeless uses a different generic encoding for product types called heterogeneous lists or HLists.
An HList is either the empty list HNil, or a pair ::[H, T] where H is an arbitrary type and T is another HList. 

```scala
val product: String :: Int :: Boolean :: HNil = "Sunday" :: 1 :: false :: HNil
```

2.2.1 Switching representations using Generic

```scala
val employee = Employee("todd", 1)
val repr = Generic[Employee].to(employee)

assert(repr == "todd" :: 1 :: HNil)
```

```scala
val repr = "todd" :: 1 :: HNil
val employee = Generic[Employee].from(repr)

assert(employee == Employee("todd", 1))
```

2.3 Generic coproducts

```scala
  case class Red()

  case class Amber()

  case class Green()

  type Light = Red :+: Amber :+: Green :+: CNil
```

In general coproducts take the form A :+: B :+: C :+: CNil meaning “A or B or C”, where :+: can be loosely interpreted as Either.

2.3.1 Switching encodings using Generic

```scala
val rectangle = Rectangle(1.0, 1.0)
val circle = Circle(2.0)

val gen = Generic[Shape]

val result1 = gen.to(rectangle)
val result2 = gen.to(circle)

assert(rectangle == gen.from(result1))
assert(circle == gen.from(result2))
```
